contribution-guidelines.md, before:

#contribution-guidelines

##Participation
You can think of these participation guidelines as a code of conduct for our project, as well.

- Bring your best self to the work.
- Assume best intentions from others.
- Take care of yourself.
- Take care of others.
- Actively encourage welcoming, inclusive behavior.
- Actively discourage harrassment, prejudice, and behavior that excludes others.
- Work as openly as possible with due respect for others' privacy choices and safety.
- Follow the 50/50 rule: for each issue you raise or problem you identify, propose a solution, as well.
- Avoid using jargon and ask for clarification when you need it.
- Provide feedback in a timely way when invited to do so.
- *More suggestions from the group....*

Please also review the [Mozilla Community Participation Guidelines](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/about/governance/policies/participation/) before contributing to this project.
##Communication
We will use three primary platforms for communication:
- Email for scheduling meetings and sharing key information and decision-making with the whole group. 
- Google Docs for sharing drafts and offering feedback on them via comments, edits, and suggestions.
- GitHub for sharing drafts and offering feedback on them via issues.

When you share a draft of a lesson, please email the group to ask for feedback. Provide
- A link to the draft.
- Notice of whether it's a GDoc or GitHub file.
- Notice of how to give feedback (e.g. "Please leave comments" or "Please file new issues").
- Specific questions you have for your respondents.
- A deadline for giving feedback.

Scondary platforms for communication between individuals may include
- Social media such as Facebook or Twitter.
- The MatterMoz app.
- An encrypted messaging service such as Whatsapp.

Whenever contributors use a secondary platform for communication that doesn't reach the entire group, those conributors will pass along any key information or share any decision-making with the whole group via email.

If you blog or otherwise post about this project on social media, please share a link with the group via email.

We may also decide to develop a 'dev blog,' or development blog, to document our practices and openly share our progress with our communities and networks.

*What other platforms and channels should we consider for communications and what protocols whouls we develop for them?*
##Working open
With due respect for the privacy choices and safety of people involved in the project, strive to work as openly as possible on this project by hosting your work in publicly accessible places for contributions and feedback from others.

Consider these [core principals of working open](https://hiveresearchlab.files.wordpress.com/2014/12/what-does-it-mean-to-work-open-in-hive-nyc-hive-research-lab-october-2014.pdf) from the [Hive Research Lab](https://hiveresearchlab.org/).

Working open involves
- **Rapid prototyping.** Share your work early and often to create an effective and routine rhythm for revision and improvement.
- **Public documentation, reflection, and storytelling.** Invite others to see your work as it develops so they can help you shape it for their communities.
- **Community contribution.** Build in regular opportunities for your teammates and your own community stakeholders to review your work and suggest ways to improve it.
- **Making the content accessible.** Host your work in places where community members can access it and copy it for their own adaptation and use.

The benefits of working open include
- **Improved projects.** Insights from your teammates and community members will increase the quality of your work.
- **Greater efficiency.** Committing to the communication channels, norms, and workflow of the project will help you manage your time and contributions to it.
- **Increased discoverability.** Your content will show up across the networks and communities of everyone who helps this project.
- **A stronger commons.** Your content will be openly available to people around the world with similar design needs who couldn't participate directly in this project now or in the future.

*What other questions about working open should we answer here?*
##Content development
Eventually, we will publish this work via GitHub and, possibly, [Thimble](https://thimble.mozilla.org). You can draft your work however you'd like. When you are ready to share, please migrate your content to a GitHub file in the *activities* folder of this repo or to a Google Doc for sharing with the group.

Your content will be licensed as [CC-BY-SA 2.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/2.0/) and credited to you and Mozilla.

Content should be structured according to the content template found in [this repo](https://github.com/chadsansing/critical-web-literacy-curriculum/blob/master/Resources/content-template.md) and as a [Google Doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1rr3MDOcfigcidn33LlGIN_rZg2gGyaQonPWxHfPBbMM/edit#).

You're free to fork, reformat, and remix all of our work at all times for your own channels, communities, networks, and sites.

*What else should we think about as we develop content for this project?*
##Safety
The goal of this project is to create a compelling, relevant, and localizable critical web literacy curriculum for our communities and networks. It should be an affirming experience through which we recognize, value, and share our contributions and talents.

***If at any time you feel unsafe, something has gone wrong, and we need to fix it immediately.***

Please contact our safety officer for this project, [](), with any concerns you have about your safety or the safety of others. Our safety officer will identify and gather the right people to de-escalate and resolve the situation.

*What other safety issues should we address here?*
####Questions? Comments? Concerns? Email our project lead, [Chad Sansing](mailto:chad@mozillafoundation.org).

Commit message:

Added Decision-making guidelines to contribution-guidelines

contribution-guidelines.md, after:

#contribution-guidelines

##Participation
You can think of these participation guidelines as a code of conduct for our project, as well.

- Bring your best self to the work.
- Assume best intentions from others.
- Take care of yourself.
- Take care of others.
- Actively encourage welcoming, inclusive behavior.
- Actively discourage harrassment, prejudice, and behavior that excludes others.
- Work as openly as possible with due respect for others' privacy choices and safety.
- Follow the 50/50 rule: for each issue you raise or problem you identify, propose a solution, as well.
- Avoid using jargon and ask for clarification when you need it.
- Provide feedback in a timely way when invited to do so.
- *More suggestions from the group....*

Please also review the [Mozilla Community Participation Guidelines](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/about/governance/policies/participation/) before contributing to this project.
##Communication
We will use four primary platforms for communication:
- Google Hangouts for online meetings.
- Email for scheduling meetings and sharing key information and decision-making with the whole group. 
- Google Docs for sharing drafts and offering feedback on them via comments, edits, and suggestions.
- GitHub for sharing drafts and offering feedback on them via issues.

When you share a draft of a lesson, please email the group to ask for feedback. Provide
- A link to the draft.
- Notice of whether it's a GDoc or GitHub file.
- Notice of how to give feedback (e.g. "Please leave comments" or "Please file new issues").
- Specific questions you have for your respondents.
- A deadline for giving feedback.

Scondary platforms for communication between individuals may include
- Social media such as Facebook or Twitter.
- The MatterMoz app.
- An encrypted messaging service such as Whatsapp.

Whenever contributors use a secondary platform for communication that doesn't reach the entire group, those conributors will pass along any key information or share any decision-making with the whole group via email.

If you blog or otherwise post about this project on social media, please share a link with the group via email.

We may also decide to develop a 'dev blog,' or development blog, to document our practices and openly share our progress with our communities and networks.

*What other platforms and channels should we consider for communications and what protocols whouls we develop for them?*
##Decision-making
Whenever possible, we will make decisions by consensus via email or online meetings.

However, sometimes we'll have decisions to make between several desirable and viable options and there will be no clear consensus on how to proceed. Likewise, we may face situations in which there are no ideal solutions. For example, scheduling meetings may prove difficult at times given how spread out we are across the world. At times like those, it will be helpful for us all to have a decision-making process on which we all agree.

At the Mozilla Foundation, we use something called ***DARCI*** to help with situations like those described above. In a DARCI scheme
- One person serves as D and makes **decisions** when there is no clear consensus on what to do next.
- One person serves as A and is **accountable** for moving the project ahead and supporting all contributors in their work.
- Several people serve as R and are **responsible** for the work of the project, like contributors to this project.
- Several people serve as C and are **consulted** about the project's progress and invited to give feedback.
- Several people serve as I and are **informed** so they can track the project for their communities and networks.

Usually the D and A roles are occupied by different people so they can help one another see different ways of looking at the project.

Let's create a DARCI for this project. Who should we add to the roles below?
- **D**
- **A** Chad Sansing
- **R** Alan Berry, Jeremy Dean, Andre Garzia, Shreyas Kutty, Jonathan Prozzi, Chad Sansing, Tina Verbo, D.C. Vito
- **C** Amira Dhalla, Meghan McDermott, Julia Vallera
- **I** Mozilla Leadership Network (MLN)

*What other issues should we discuss around decision-making for our project?*
##Working open
With due respect for the privacy choices and safety of people involved in the project, strive to work as openly as possible on this project by hosting your work in publicly accessible places for contributions and feedback from others.

Consider these [core principals of working open](https://hiveresearchlab.files.wordpress.com/2014/12/what-does-it-mean-to-work-open-in-hive-nyc-hive-research-lab-october-2014.pdf) from the [Hive Research Lab](https://hiveresearchlab.org/).

Working open involves
- **Rapid prototyping.** Share your work early and often to create an effective and routine rhythm for revision and improvement.
- **Public documentation, reflection, and storytelling.** Invite others to see your work as it develops so they can help you shape it for their communities.
- **Community contribution.** Build in regular opportunities for your teammates and your own community stakeholders to review your work and suggest ways to improve it.
- **Making the content accessible.** Host your work in places where community members can access it and copy it for their own adaptation and use.

The benefits of working open include
- **Improved projects.** Insights from your teammates and community members will increase the quality of your work.
- **Greater efficiency.** Committing to the communication channels, norms, and workflow of the project will help you manage your time and contributions to it.
- **Increased discoverability.** Your content will show up across the networks and communities of everyone who helps this project.
- **A stronger commons.** Your content will be openly available to people around the world with similar design needs who couldn't participate directly in this project now or in the future.

*What other questions about working open should we answer here?*
##Content development
Eventually, we will publish this work via GitHub and, possibly, [Thimble](https://thimble.mozilla.org). You can draft your work however you'd like. When you are ready to share, please migrate your content to a GitHub file in the *activities* folder of this repo or to a Google Doc for sharing with the group.

Your content will be licensed as [CC-BY-SA 2.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/2.0/) and credited to you and Mozilla.

Content should be structured according to the content template found in [this repo](https://github.com/chadsansing/critical-web-literacy-curriculum/blob/master/Resources/content-template.md) and as a [Google Doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1rr3MDOcfigcidn33LlGIN_rZg2gGyaQonPWxHfPBbMM/edit#).

You're free to fork, reformat, and remix all of our work at all times for your own channels, communities, networks, and sites.

*What else should we think about as we develop content for this project?*
##Safety
The goal of this project is to create a compelling, relevant, and localizable critical web literacy curriculum for our communities and networks. It should be an affirming experience through which we recognize, value, and share our contributions and talents.

***If at any time you feel unsafe, something has gone wrong, and we need to fix it immediately.***

Please contact our safety officer for this project, [](), with any concerns you have about your safety or the safety of others. Our safety officer will identify and gather the right people to de-escalate and resolve the situation.

*What other safety issues should we address here?*
####Questions? Comments? Concerns? Email our project lead, [Chad Sansing](mailto:chad@mozillafoundation.org).
